reference/contentmask.md, before:

# Content masking

This function offers three algorithms for topic/content masking. In
order to run the masking algorithms, a `spacy` tokenizer or POS-tagger
has to be run first (via `spacyr`). For more information about the
masking algorithms see Details below.

## Usage

``` r
contentmask(
  corpus,
  model = "en_core_web_sm",
  algorithm = "POSnoise",
  fw_list = "eng_halvani",
  replace_non_ascii = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- corpus:

  A `quanteda` corpus object, typically the output of the
  [`create_corpus()`](https://andreanini.github.io/idiolect/reference/create_corpus.md)
  function.

- model:

  The spacy model to use. The default is "en_core_web_sm".

- algorithm:

  A string, either "POSnoise" (default), "frames", or "textdistortion".

- fw_list:

  The list of function words to use for the `textdistortion` algorithm.
  This is either the default ("eng_halvani") for the same list of
  function words used for `POSnoise` or it can be a vector of strings
  where each string is a function word to keep.

- replace_non_ascii:

  A logical value indicating whether to remove non-ASCII characters
  (including emojis). This is the default.

## Value

A `quanteda` corpus object only containing functional tokens, depending
on the algorithm chosen. The corpus contains the same docvars as the
input. Email addresses or URLs are treated like nouns.

## Details

The default algorithm for content masking that this function applies is
`POSnoise` (Halvani and Graner 2021). This algorithm only works for
English and it transforms a text by masking tokens using their POS tag
if these tokens are: nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, digits, and
symbols while leaving all the rest unchanged. `POSnoise` uses a list of
function words for English that also includes frequent words belonging
to the masked Part of Speech tags that tend to be mostly functional
(e.g. make, recently, well).

Another algorithm implemented is Nini's (2023) `frames` or
`frame n-grams`. This algorithm does not involve a special list of
tokens and therefore can potentially work for any language provided that
the correct `spacy` model is loaded. This algorithm consists in masking
all tokens using their POS tag only when these are nouns, verbs, or
personal pronouns.

Finally, the last algorithm implemented is a version of
`textdistortion`, as originally proposed by Stamatatos (2017). This
version of the algorithm is essentially `POSnoise` but without POS tag
information. The default implementation uses the same list of function
words that are used for `POSnoise`. In addition to the function words
provided, the function treats all punctuation marks and new line breaks
as function words to keep. The basic tokenization is done using `spacyr`
so the right model for the language being analysed should be selected.

If you have never used `spacyr` before then please follow the
instructions to set it up and install a model before using this
function.

The removal of non-ASCII characters is done using the `textclean`
package.

## References

Halvani, Oren & Lukas Graner. 2021. POSNoise: An Effective
Countermeasure Against Topic Biases in Authorship Analysis. In
Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Availability,
Reliability and Security, 1–12. Vienna, Austria: Association for
Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/3465481.3470050. Nini,
Andrea. 2023. A Theory of Linguistic Individuality for Authorship
Analysis (Elements in Forensic Linguistics). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press. Stamatatos, Efstathios. 2017. Masking topic-related
information to enhance authorship attribution. Journal of the
Association for Information Science and Technology.
https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.23968.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
text <- "The cat was on the chair. He didn't move\ncat@pets.com;\nhttp://quanteda.io/. i.e. a test "
toy.corpus <- quanteda::corpus(text)
contentmask(toy.corpus, algorithm = "POSnoise")
contentmask(toy.corpus, algorithm = "textdistortion")
} # }
```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ andreanini/idiolect@446e46ae9e64e3ccca0371929e841956750d52ef 🚀

reference/contentmask.md, after:

# Content masking

This function offers three algorithms for topic/content masking. In
order to run the masking algorithms, a `spacy` tokenizer or POS-tagger
has to be run first (via `spacyr`). For more information about the
masking algorithms see Details below.

## Usage

``` r
contentmask(
  corpus,
  model = "en_core_web_sm",
  algorithm = "POSnoise",
  fw_list = "eng_halvani"
)
```

## Arguments

- corpus:

  A `quanteda` corpus object, typically the output of the
  [`create_corpus()`](https://andreanini.github.io/idiolect/reference/create_corpus.md)
  function.

- model:

  The spacy model to use. The default is "en_core_web_sm".

- algorithm:

  A string, either "POSnoise" (default), "frames", or "textdistortion".

- fw_list:

  The list of function words to use for the `textdistortion` algorithm.
  This is either the default ("eng_halvani") for the same list of
  function words used for `POSnoise` or it can be a vector of strings
  where each string is a function word to keep.

## Value

A `quanteda` corpus object only containing functional tokens, depending
on the algorithm chosen. The corpus contains the same docvars as the
input. Email addresses or URLs are treated like nouns.

## Details

The default algorithm for content masking that this function applies is
`POSnoise` (Halvani and Graner 2021). This algorithm only works for
English and it transforms a text by masking tokens using their POS tag
if these tokens are: nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, digits, and
symbols while leaving all the rest unchanged. `POSnoise` uses a list of
function words for English that also includes frequent words belonging
to the masked Part of Speech tags that tend to be mostly functional
(e.g. make, recently, well).

Another algorithm implemented is Nini's (2023) `frames` or
`frame n-grams`. This algorithm does not involve a special list of
tokens and therefore can potentially work for any language provided that
the correct `spacy` model is loaded. This algorithm consists in masking
all tokens using their POS tag only when these are nouns, verbs, or
numbers. The original version of the algorithms also masked personal
pronouns but this is not done here to make this more applicable for
various languages (the spacy universal tagset does not distinguish
personal pronouns from other types of pronouns).

Finally, the last algorithm implemented is a version of
`textdistortion`, as originally proposed by Stamatatos (2017). This
version of the algorithm is essentially `POSnoise` but without POS tag
information. The default implementation uses the same list of function
words that are used for `POSnoise`. In addition to the function words
provided, the function treats all punctuation marks and new line breaks
as function words to keep. The basic tokenization is done using `spacyr`
so the right model for the language being analysed should be selected.

If you have never used `spacyr` before then please follow the
instructions to set it up and install a model before using this function
here: <https://spacyr.quanteda.io>.

## References

Halvani, Oren & Lukas Graner. 2021. POSNoise: An Effective
Countermeasure Against Topic Biases in Authorship Analysis. In
Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Availability,
Reliability and Security, 1–12. Vienna, Austria: Association for
Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/3465481.3470050. Nini,
Andrea. 2023. A Theory of Linguistic Individuality for Authorship
Analysis (Elements in Forensic Linguistics). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press. Stamatatos, Efstathios. 2017. Masking topic-related
information to enhance authorship attribution. Journal of the
Association for Information Science and Technology.
https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.23968.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
text <- "The cat was on the chair. He didn't move\ncat@pets.com;\nhttp://quanteda.io/. i.e. a test "
toy.corpus <- quanteda::corpus(text)
contentmask(toy.corpus, algorithm = "POSnoise")
contentmask(toy.corpus, algorithm = "frames")
contentmask(toy.corpus, algorithm = "textdistortion")
} # }
```
